# Computational-Musicology
My Computational Musicology repository
Death Grips is an experimental hiphop band with three members. When I got introduced to their Death Grips’ music, I hated it. However, after torturing myself for quite some time, I came to like it. Their music is extremely energetic and, if I might say so, quite aggressive. I have not always been able to put my finger on Death Grips’ music. When I think I have found the rhythm, it changes again. This is one of the reasons why I am very curious what the Spotify API makes out of it. 

Their first album, The Money Store (2012), is their most popular one. I think it is possibly their least experimental album, compared to their later albums. In total they released 7 albums, including one instrumental album and excluding two mixtapes from 2011. I chose to exclude these two mixtapes, because they are not on Spotify (they include uncleared samples). I want to research the differences between the different albums throughout the years. Has Death Grips become more experimental? What does ‘experimental’ mean? And how can we distinguish this ‘experimentalness’ in Spotify’s API?

In 2015, two of the three members released music under a different band name: The I.L.Y’s. The singer/rapper of Death Grips (MC Ride) is not involved in this project. I have the feeling that The I.L.Y’s are less experimental than Death Grips, or, in other words, The I.L.Y’s are more listenable. However, Death Grips is much more popular than The I.L.Y’s. I want to compare Death Grips with The I.L.Y’s. Besides, I want to put the three I.L.Y’s albums in between the Death Grips albums (chronological order) to see if there are similarities within the changes both bands go through.
